Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).