 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.