 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.