Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.