Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.