For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.