Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.