As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.