Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.