 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.