 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.