Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.