Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.