It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.