However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.