Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.