The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.