Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
However, readability is more than just programming style.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.