Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.