FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.