He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.