 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.