Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).