 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.