It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.

The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.