 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).