 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.