It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.