Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.