There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.