There are many approaches to the Software development process.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.