 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.