Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).