 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.