 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.