 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.