 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.