FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.