 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.