There are many approaches to the Software development process.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.