Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.