 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.