The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.