 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.