They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.