He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.