A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.