 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.