However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.