
The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.