Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.