Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.