Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.