Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.