 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.

When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.