Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.