Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.