 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.

 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.