The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.