This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.