By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.