However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.