They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.