This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.