Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.