One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.