Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.