It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).