 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).