A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.