 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.