 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.