FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.