The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.

Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.