 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.