 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.