 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).