It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.