 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.