Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.