FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.