 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.