This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.