Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.