 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).