However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.