 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.