The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.