 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.