They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.