Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).