Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.