Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.