One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.