 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.

Programming languages are essential for software development.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.