Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.