Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.