Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.