It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.