For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.

Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.