 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.