
 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.