One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.