Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.