While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.