While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.