 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.