 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.