However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.