However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.