 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.