Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.