There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.