He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.