In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.