While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.