FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.