It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.