It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.