Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.