Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.