 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
However, readability is more than just programming style.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.