It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.