A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
