For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.