 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.