In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.