He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.