Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.