Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.