 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.