Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.

Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.