Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.