 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.