Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.