For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.