However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Programming languages are essential for software development.