 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.