
The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.