 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.