Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.