
 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.