While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.