Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.