 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.