 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.