The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Programming languages are essential for software development.