Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.