Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).