Programming languages are essential for software development.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.