 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.