As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.