Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.