 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.