There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.