Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.