Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.