Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.