They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.