Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.