However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.