It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
