He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.