Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.