 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.