 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
However, readability is more than just programming style.