However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.