In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.