 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.

It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.