Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.