They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
