Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.