He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.