Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.

It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.