In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.