 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.