However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.