 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).