Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.

 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.