Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).