He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.

In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.