 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.