For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.