 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.