Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.