When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.