The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.