Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.