There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.