Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.