Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.