Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.