 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.