Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.