The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.