 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.