Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.