FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.

As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.