The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.