 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.

Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.