The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.