Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.

 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.