The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.