 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.