 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.