 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.