Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.