Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.