Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
However, readability is more than just programming style.

Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.