 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.