 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.