However, readability is more than just programming style.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.