The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.