
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.