 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.