
 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.