
The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).