 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.