Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.