Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.