Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.