To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.