Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.