Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
This is interpreted into machine code.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.