Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.