This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.