Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).