Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).