Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.