Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.