Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.