Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.