Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.