Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.