He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.