Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.