Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.