Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.