However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Programming languages are essential for software development.