However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).