To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.