Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.