Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.