For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.