Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.