As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.