Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 Tasks accompanying and related to programming include testing, debugging, source code maintenance, implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as the machine code of computer programs.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Programming languages are essential for software development.