Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.