The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
This is interpreted into machine code.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.