A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.