Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.