As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.