For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.