However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.