They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.