Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.