The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.