Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.