Programming languages are essential for software development.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.