Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.