Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.