However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.