This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.