One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.