The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.