Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.