Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Tasks accompanying and related to programming include testing, debugging, source code maintenance, implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as the machine code of computer programs.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.