Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.