However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).