He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.