Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.