For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.