Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.