He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.