Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
This is interpreted into machine code.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.