Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.