It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
This is interpreted into machine code.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.