It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
This is interpreted into machine code.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.