He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.