The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).