Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.