He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.