Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.