A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).