For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.