The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
However, readability is more than just programming style.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.