For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.