There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
This is interpreted into machine code.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).