Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.