To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.