Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.