For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.