The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.