However, readability is more than just programming style.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.