They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
This is interpreted into machine code.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.