The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.