As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.