However, readability is more than just programming style.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.