However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.