Programming languages are essential for software development.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.