Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.