There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.