Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.