In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.