The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.