However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.