Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.