When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.