In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
This is interpreted into machine code.