Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Programming languages are essential for software development.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).