A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.