The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.