When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.