Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.