Programming languages are essential for software development.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.