For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.