Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.