Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.