To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.