In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.

Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.