The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.