However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
