There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).