Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.