Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.