Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.