However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.