However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.