There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.