Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.

 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.