In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.