Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.