Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.