The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.