The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.