Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.