Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.