Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.