There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.