However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.