Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.