The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.