To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.