Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.