However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.