Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
This is interpreted into machine code.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.