Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.