He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.