However, readability is more than just programming style.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.