Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.