As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.

 Computer programming is the process of performing particular computations (or more generally, accomplishing specific computing results), usually by designing and building executable computer programs.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.