Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.