Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for solving a given problem.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.