Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.