Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.