By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.