By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.