As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.