The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Programming languages are essential for software development.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.