Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.