Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.