Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.