However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.