Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
This is interpreted into machine code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.