Programming languages are essential for software development.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 Tasks accompanying and related to programming include testing, debugging, source code maintenance, implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as the machine code of computer programs.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
The source code of a program is written in one or more languages that are intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.