However, while these might be considered part of the programming process, often the term software development is more likely used for this larger overall process – whereas the terms programming, implementation, and coding tend to be focused on the actual writing of code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
To produce machine code, the source code must either be compiled or transpiled.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.