Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.