Programming languages are essential for software development.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.