A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.