Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).