Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Relatedly, software engineering combines engineering techniques and principles with software development.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.