When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Transpiling on the other hand, takes the source-code from a high-level programming language and converts it into bytecode.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).