The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Compiling takes the source code from a low-level programming language and converts it into machine code.
Proficient programming thus usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.