The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
This is interpreted into machine code.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Tasks accompanying and related to programming include testing, debugging, source code maintenance, implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as the machine code of computer programs.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.