Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Programming involves tasks such as analysis, generating algorithms, profiling algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the implementation of algorithms (usually in a particular programming language, commonly referred to as coding).
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Also, those involved with software development may at times engage in reverse engineering, which is the practice of seeking to understand an existing program so as to re-implement its function in some way.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.