There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.