 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).

Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Programming languages are essential for software development.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.