Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.