
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).