In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Programming languages are essential for software development.