There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.