 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.