He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.