Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.

Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).