For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.