 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.