
The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.