 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.