However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.