Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.

 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.