Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.

 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.