Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.

 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.