 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.

However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.