There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.

Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.