Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.

Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.