It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.