For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.