Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.