 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.