However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.