 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.