Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.