Programming languages are essential for software development.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.