Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.