 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.