Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.