 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.


 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.