 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.