Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.