Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.