Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.