Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.