 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.