 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.