 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.