A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.