When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.