 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.