In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.