In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.