 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.