In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.