The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.