The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.