 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.