For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.