A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.