Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Programming languages are essential for software development.