Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.