There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.