It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.