Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.