When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.