 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).