 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.

 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.