 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.