There are many approaches to the Software development process.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.