Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.