
 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.