For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.