However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.