 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
