 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
However, readability is more than just programming style.