As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.