While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).