However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.