 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.