Programming languages are essential for software development.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.

The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).