It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.