It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).