 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).