The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).