Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.