 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.