Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).