They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.

However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.