They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.