By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
Programming languages are essential for software development.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.