
 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.

When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).