The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.