
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.