Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.