 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.