In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.