 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.