 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.