 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.