Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.

This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.