Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).