 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.