 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).

For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.