 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.