 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.