FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.