Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.