 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
However, with the concept of the stored-program computer introduced in 1949, both programs and data were stored and manipulated in the same way in computer memory.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.

Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).