Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.