Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
The choice of language used is subject to many considerations, such as company policy, suitability to task, availability of third-party packages, or individual preference.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.