Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.