Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
When debugging the problem in a GUI, the programmer can try to skip some user interaction from the original problem description and check if remaining actions are sufficient for bugs to appear.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.