 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Programming languages are essential for software development.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.