Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 After the bug is reproduced, the input of the program may need to be simplified to make it easier to debug.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.