While these are sometimes considered programming, often the term software development is used for this larger overall process – with the terms programming, implementation, and coding reserved for the writing and editing of code per se.
Some of these factors include:
 The presentation aspects of this (such as indents, line breaks, color highlighting, and so on) are often handled by the source code editor, but the content aspects reflect the programmer's talent and skills.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.