 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.