Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.