 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
However, readability is more than just programming style.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Allen Downey, in his book How To Think Like A Computer Scientist, writes:
 Many computer languages provide a mechanism to call functions provided by shared libraries.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.