For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Different programming languages support different styles of programming (called programming paradigms).
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.