Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
Assembly languages were soon developed that let the programmer specify instruction in a text format (e.g., ADD X, TOTAL), with abbreviations for each operation code and meaningful names for specifying addresses.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.