By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.

 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
Many programmers use forms of Agile software development where the various stages of formal software development are more integrated together into short cycles that take a few weeks rather than years.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Programmers typically use high-level programming languages that are more easily intelligible to humans than machine code, which is directly executed by the central processing unit.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.