
 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
 New languages are generally designed around the syntax of a prior language with new functionality added, (for example C++ adds object-orientation to C, and Java adds memory management and bytecode to C++, but as a result, loses efficiency and the ability for low-level manipulation).
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.