Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
 Following a consistent programming style often helps readability.
For example, COBOL is still strong in corporate data centers often on large mainframe computers, Fortran in engineering applications, scripting languages in Web development, and C in embedded software.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
Many factors, having little or nothing to do with the ability of the computer to efficiently compile and execute the code, contribute to readability.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.