Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
In the 9th century, the Arab mathematician Al-Kindi described a cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code, in A Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
 Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications, while some languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Their jobs usually involve:
 Although programming has been presented in the media as a somewhat mathematical subject, some research shows that good programmers have strong skills in natural human languages, and that learning to code is similar to learning a foreign language.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.