
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
 Readability is important because programmers spend the majority of their time reading, trying to understand, reusing and modifying existing source code, rather than writing new source code.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Later a control panel (plug board) added to his 1906 Type I Tabulator allowed it to be programmed for different jobs, and by the late 1940s, unit record equipment such as the IBM 602 and IBM 604, were programmed by control panels in a similar way, as were the first electronic computers.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.