The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
 Programmable devices have existed for centuries.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
It is usually easier to code in "high-level" languages than in "low-level" ones.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
Some languages are more prone to some kinds of faults because their specification does not require compilers to perform as much checking as other languages.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
Integrated development environments (IDEs) aim to integrate all such help.