
 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
One approach popular for requirements analysis is Use Case analysis.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
Sometimes software development is known as software engineering, especially when it employs formal methods or follows an engineering design process.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
However, because an assembly language is little more than a different notation for a machine language,  two machines with different instruction sets also have different assembly languages.
 Auxiliary tasks accompanying and related to programming include analyzing requirements, testing, debugging (investigating and fixing problems), implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as programs' machine code.
 High-level languages made the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable, and less bound to the underlying hardware.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).