Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
There are many approaches to the Software development process.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Also, specific user environment and usage history can make it difficult to reproduce the problem.
Ideally, the programming language best suited for the task at hand will be selected.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.
A study found that a few simple readability transformations made code shorter and drastically reduced the time to understand it.
 Machine code was the language of early programs, written in the instruction set of the particular machine, often in binary notation.
Proficient programming usually requires expertise in several different subjects, including knowledge of the application domain, details of programming languages and generic code libraries, specialized algorithms, and formal logic.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.
In 1801, the Jacquard loom could produce entirely different weaves by changing the "program" – a series of pasteboard cards with holes punched in them.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.