Provided the functions in a library follow the appropriate run-time conventions (e.g., method of passing arguments), then these functions may be written in any other language.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
 Code-breaking algorithms have also existed for centuries.
As early as the 9th century, a programmable music sequencer was invented by the Persian Banu Musa brothers, who described an automated mechanical flute player in the Book of Ingenious Devices.
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 The academic field and the engineering practice of computer programming are both largely concerned with discovering and implementing the most efficient algorithms for a given class of problems.
 Whatever the approach to development may be, the final program must satisfy some fundamental properties.
Use of a static code analysis tool can help detect some possible problems.

 Computer programming or coding is the composition of sequences of instructions, called programs, that computers can follow to perform tasks.
 Debugging is a very important task in the software development process since having defects in a program can have significant consequences for its users.
Normally the first step in debugging is to attempt to reproduce the problem.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.