There are many approaches to the Software development process.
Scripting and breakpointing is also part of this process.
 It is very difficult to determine what are the most popular modern programming languages.
Methods of measuring programming language popularity include: counting the number of job advertisements that mention the language, the number of books sold and courses teaching the language (this overestimates the importance of newer languages), and estimates of the number of existing lines of code written in the language (this underestimates the number of users of business languages such as COBOL).
There exist a lot of different approaches for each of those tasks.
Some text editors such as Emacs allow GDB to be invoked through them, to provide a visual environment.
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
Trial-and-error/divide-and-conquer is needed: the programmer will try to remove some parts of the original test case and check if the problem still exists.
Compilers harnessed the power of computers to make programming easier by allowing programmers to specify calculations by entering a formula using infix notation.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
Text editors were also developed that allowed changes and corrections to be made much more easily than with punched cards.
FORTRAN, the first widely used high-level language to have a functional implementation, came out in 1957, and many other languages were soon developed—in particular, COBOL aimed at commercial data processing, and Lisp for computer research.
Languages form an approximate spectrum from "low-level" to "high-level"; "low-level" languages are typically more machine-oriented and faster to execute, whereas "high-level" languages are more abstract and easier to use but execute less quickly.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
They are the building blocks for all software, from the simplest applications to the most sophisticated ones.