He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 Programs were mostly entered using punched cards or paper tape.
Many applications use a mix of several languages in their construction and use.
Trade-offs from this ideal involve finding enough programmers who know the language to build a team, the availability of compilers for that language, and the efficiency with which programs written in a given language execute.
Unreadable code often leads to bugs, inefficiencies, and duplicated code.
The following properties are among the most important:

 In computer programming, readability refers to the ease with which a human reader can comprehend the purpose, control flow, and operation of source code.
In 1206, the Arab engineer Al-Jazari invented a programmable drum machine where a musical mechanical automaton could be made to play different rhythms and drum patterns, via pegs and cams.
However, Charles Babbage had already written his first program for the Analytical Engine in 1837.
Expert programmers are familiar with a variety of well-established algorithms and their respective complexities and use this knowledge to choose algorithms that are best suited to the circumstances.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
Techniques like Code refactoring can enhance readability.
 Various visual programming languages have also been developed with the intent to resolve readability concerns by adopting non-traditional approaches to code structure and display.
By the late 1960s, data storage devices and computer terminals became inexpensive enough that programs could be created by typing directly into the computers.
It involves designing and implementing algorithms, step-by-step specifications of procedures, by writing code in one or more programming languages.
This can be a non-trivial task, for example as with parallel processes or some unusual software bugs.