The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a notation used for both the OOAD and MDA.
For example, when a bug in a compiler can make it crash when parsing some large source file, a simplification of the test case that results in only few lines from the original source file can be sufficient to reproduce the same crash.
 A similar technique used for database design is Entity-Relationship Modeling (ER Modeling).
 These compiled languages allow the programmer to write programs in terms that are syntactically richer, and more capable of abstracting the code, making it easy to target varying machine instruction sets via compilation declarations and heuristics.
 Computer programmers are those who write computer software.
It affects the aspects of quality above, including portability, usability and most importantly maintainability.
 The first computer program is generally dated to 1843, when mathematician Ada Lovelace published an algorithm to calculate a sequence of Bernoulli numbers, intended to be carried out by Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.
 Debugging is often done with IDEs. Standalone debuggers like GDB are also used, and these often provide less of a visual environment, usually using a command line.
For this purpose, algorithms are classified into orders using so-called Big O notation, which expresses resource use, such as execution time or memory consumption, in terms of the size of an input.

The first compiler related tool, the A-0 System, was developed in 1952 by Grace Hopper, who also coined the term 'compiler'.
He gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest code-breaking algorithm.
 The first step in most formal software development processes is requirements analysis, followed by testing to determine value modeling, implementation, and failure elimination (debugging).
 Popular modeling techniques include Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and Model-Driven Architecture (MDA).
 Implementation techniques include imperative languages (object-oriented or procedural), functional languages, and logic languages.
 In the 1880s, Herman Hollerith invented the concept of storing data in machine-readable form.